Situation Report
Summary
,
Heavy rains, flooding landslides
Sri Lanka
1800 hours 20-12-2019
49 Divisions in 7,025 People 1094 Families in 219 Houses 2 deaths
12 Districts affected affected 37 safe locations Damaged
DISASTER MANAGEMENT CENTER
MINISTRY OF DEFENSE

HIGHLIGHTS
 Some high risk communities are evacuated in downstream areas in Thabbowa and DeduruOya
as river levels are rising, 20 spill gated opened in Thabbowa tank and 14 spill gates opened in
Rajanganaya tank.
 7,025 people (2,062 families) are reported to have been affected, in ten (12) Districts during the
since 18th December 2019. Further, 2 persons are reported to be dead due to floods and cut-
ting failure.
 As a result of heavy rainfall, strong winds and landslides, 23 houses fully and 219 houses partial-
ly, have been damaged mostly in the Nuwara-Eliya, Kandy and Anuradhapura Districts.
 3,875 people belonging to 1,094 families, have been evacuated to the 37 locations set up to as-
sist those displaced. Most of these locations are in the Nuwara-Eliya, Badulla, Monaragala and
Puttalam districts.
 LKR 7.35 Mn has allocated by NDRSC for emergency relief purposes in eight affected district
secretariats.
CURRENT SITUATION
Due to active cloudiness in the seas areas of the country, many parts have received above 100mm
rainfall during past 24hours. Some of roads are inaccessible in Badulla, Polonnaruwa, Hambantota,
Puttalam, Anuradhapura and Matale Districts due to inundations and earth slips.
As of now worst affected areas are
Wanathavilluwa & Nawagaththegama in Put-
talam; Kataragama in Monaragala; Mahiyanga-
naya & Haputale in Badulla, Walapane in Nu-
waraeliya Districts.
Also People evacuated in Polonnaruwa District
Weilikanda, Manampitiya, Dimbulaga-
la ,Pimburaththewa DS Divisions, and in Anura-
dhapura District Galnewa, Ipalogama, Thalawa,
Thambuththegama DS Divisions
At the end of 1800hrs on 20th December,
very heavy rainfall were recorded in 512mm
in Moragahakanda (Matale), 226mm in Di-
yabeduma, Polonnaruwa, 283mm in Hakwa-
FIGURE 01: Affected area mapping
2

Reservoir Status
(reservoirs which are spilling at present)
District Reservoir Name
Anuradhapura Nuwara Wewa
Anuradhapura Nachchaduwa
Anuradhapura Manankattiya
Anuradhapura Yan Oya
Badulla Kande Ela
Badulla Sorabora
Batticaloa Unnichchai
Batticaloa Rugam
Hambantota Tissawewa
Hambantota Lunugamwehera
Hambantota Badagiriya
Hambantota Yodawewa
Kurunegala Usgala Siyabalangamuwa
Kurunegala Ambakolawewa
Matale Nalanda
Matale Dewahuwa
Matara Ellewela
Monaragala Ethimale
Puttalam Tabbowa
Puttalam Inginimitiya
Trincomalee Wan Ela
Trincomalee Mahadivul Wewa
Table 01: reservoirs which are spilling at
present FIGURE 02: Reservoir levels
Due to heavy rainfall over past 24 hours, many rivers are rising at this moment. Kumbukkan oya at
Nakkala shows minor flooding; Hada-Oya at Siyambalanduwa at alert level; Mahaweli Ganga at Ma-
nampitiya and Thaldena shows minor flooding.
Table 02: Rainfall recorded from De-
partment of Meterology, Department
of Irrigation, National Building Re-
search Organization
3

FORECAST AND WARNING
Department of Meteorology: Due to an active North-east monsoon
conditions, showery condition over the island, particularly in Northern,
Eastern and Uva provinces and in Polonnaruwa district is expected to
enhance further Eastern, Uva, North-Central and Northern provinces
is likely to enhance.
Fairly heavy showers of about (75-100) mm are likely in south-western
districts. However, heavy rains may decreased from tomorrow on-
wards.
National Building Research Organization: Due to heavy rainfalls
NBRO has issued landslide warnins in 3 different stages: Alert, Watch
and Warning. Level 3 warning issued for Laggala, Yatawatta, Naula in
Matale districts, Ududumbara in Kandy, Badulla, Bandarawela,
Welimada in Nuwara-Eliya Districts.
FIGURE 01: Weather forecast for next 24hours at 1800 Hrs
District Level 1 - Watchful Level 2 - Alert Level 3 - Evacuation
Matale Ambanganga Korale Laggala
Ukuwela Pallegama
Pallepola Yatawatta
Matale Naula
Wilgamuwa, Rattota
Kandy Phathahewaheta Ududumbara
Medadumbara
Nuwara Eliya Nuwara Eliya Hanguranketha Walapane
Badulla Badulla
Bandarawela
Welimada
Hali-Ela
Uvaparanagama
Ella
Passara
Lunugala
Haputale
Soranathota
Monaragala Badalkumbura
Rathnapura Balangoda,
Imbulpe
TABLE 03: Landslide warning issued by NBRO 1600HRS, 20 Dec 2019
272 people evacuated to 10 safety locations due to landslide risk in Walapane division in Nuwara-Eliya District, 4
and evacuation order given for 15 families in Ududumbara in Kandy District.

FIGURE 01: 3-day Weather forecast for next 24hours at 1630 Hrs 20
Numerical weather predictions by the Department of Meteorology, shows a reduction of rainfall from tomorrow onwards.
DISASTER RESPONSE AND RELIEF
The secretary to the ministry of defense directed to the Sri Lanka Army, Navy, Air force, Police and Civil De-
fense department to be standby to cope up with any unexpected situations due to prevailing bad weather in the
country and military troops and police are continuously assisting affected communities in various locations.
National Disaster Relief Services Center has allocated LKR 7.35 million for relief services for Kandy, Anuradha-
pura, Monaragala, Kurunegala, Puttalam, Badulla, Ampara and Hambantota districts.
As at now about 3,875 affected people belong to 1,094 families were relocated in 37 safety centers in 5
Districts.
• Farmers were rescued in Siyambalanduwa in Monaragala districts by Navy.
• 15 Tourists in Yala forest were rescued and taken to safer areas with the support of Military.
• One person is missing in Aliyadiwembu in Ampara due to a water current.
• 3 foreigners were rescued in a collapsed cottage between Ella & Rock-Ella and moved to a hospital with the
support of Military and police
District Area Remarks
Puttalam Daduruoya downstream is inundated 6 gates of Deduruoya tank is opened
Polonnaruwa Somawathiya road is closed in Sungawila. Due to overflow of Mahaweli river
People evacuated in Weilikanda,Manampitiya,
Dimbulagala, Pimburaththewa
Badulla Haldummulla Kirawanagama road is blocked. Road is clearing at the moment
Bibile Lunugala road in impassible until 6 am to-
morrow
Kandy Ududumbara Meemure road is inaccessible due
Ampara Bridge is damaged in Panama Uhantha road Due to heavy rains
Anuradhapura People evacuated in Galnewa, Ipalogama, Thalawa, Due to spilling of kalawewa
Thambuththegama
TABLE 04: Special incidents reported
5

Also military troops and Police personnel are assisting to public administration officials for emergency relief
efforts together with Disaster Management Centre and National Relief Services Centre. Below picture shows
road block at 6th mile-post in Badulla Passara road.
FIGURE 05: Road block due to earth slip in Badulla
This report was produced with the technical support of World Food Programme (WFP)
Emergency Contact Information
Responsible Agency/Unit Officer Contact Email
Response Operation Coordination- Director- Emergency 0773957903 direoc@dmc.gov.lk
DMC
National Disaster Relief Services Director 0773550134 iraj.chaminda.pathiraja@gmail.com
Emergency Operation Centre Duty Officer 0773957900 eocdmc@dmc.gov.lk
DMC 0112670002
0702117117
Military Resources Mobilization Military Coordinator 0772095328 miltorycoordinator@dmc.gov.lk
Emergency Call Centre Duty Officer 117 info@dmc.gov.lk
Checked by: Approved by:
————————————————— —————————————————
Brigadier W.A. Ariyaratne RWP RSP Mr. W.A. Dharmasiri
Director - Emergency Operations Director General
Disaster Management Centre Disaster Management Centre
6